---
published: false
---


Making audiovisual Anki flashcards from episodes of "Avatar: The Last Airbender".

1) I'm using "The Complete Book 1 Collection", which has French and Spanish audio tracks as well as English. (Note: I have not checked all of the episodes in the box for Spanish audio.)

2) Rip the DVD to my hard drive using DVDFab (the free component only). Don't save the video to my network drive--it will exceed my storage quota. Took about 30 minutes for the whole dvd. Alternatively, choose one episode. Make sure to choose the Spanish audio track.

3) Use Handbrake to pull out Episode 1 and convert it to MKV format.

a. Use the Source button on Handbrake to open the dvd. Choose the "open a single file" option. DVDFab stores the dvd's ISO image under Libraries/Documents/DVDFab

b. Handbrake settings:

-Chapters 1 through 1

-Container: MKV

-Save to Libraries/Video

-Picture: anamorphic (Strict); detelecine (default); decomb (default); denoise (off)

-video: codec (h.264); constant quality (RF20); x264 tune (animation)

-audio: source(Spanish); mixdown(stereo)

-click "preview" to check it's working.


4) Use subs2srs to create the Anki flashcards. I downloaded the [subtitle files](https://www.dropbox.com/s/4ac11e38bumj23r/subs2srs_es.zip?dl=0). This zip file includes Airbender Episodes 1,2,5,6, and the movies "Pan's Labyrinth", "Y Tu Mama Tambien", and "Matando Cabos". The Spanish and English subtitles in this package are hand-tuned to be correctly time-aligned, and optimized for subs2srs.

5) Set the Avatar deck to add only five new cards a day. I study each one carefully until I've learned it (assuming I don't delete or suspend it if I don't like it).
